Its “go” time. Approximately seven months until the big day and, like a lot of brides, I want to look and feel my best.  This means losing a little weight, toning up, and getting my teeth picture perfect with Invisalign. Fortunately, I have already lost 15 pounds with the help of a low calorie diet!  I cut my meat intake down to once a day and have a light salad and sandwich dinner twice a week when I’m at school. I never really thought about how my eating habits would be impacted by Invisalign treatment. From what I understand, I’m supposed to wear my aligners 22 hours per day and should take them out when I eat. Then after eating, I need to brush my teeth. My meals are usually scheduled during the week, but on the weekends I can be a bit of a snacker. The aligners will probably help deter me from any unnecessary snacking since I will be trying to get my hours in and it can be a hassle to brush each time after eating. I’m definitely a food lover, so I’m pretty excited that I won’t have any food restrictions while going through treatment. Now the trouble is finding time to exercise. I work at least 40 hours per week and attend class twice a week for my MBA program. Free time is consumed by school work, wedding planning, and other necessities like laundry and cleaning. I know what you’re thinking – excuses, excuses. I know! But, I just can’t get out of bed an hour or two before work every morning just for exercise. I already wake up at 5:45 a.m. and that’s early enough for me. My goal is to start slow by incorporating exercise on the weekends and then try to increase my workouts during the week. In the past, I have had success with an at-home circuit training DVD. The workout only takes 20 minutes and you only need yourself and a set of dumb bells. It’s a great option when I can’t get outside. When the weather is nice, my fiance, Tony, and I love to take walks and ride our bikes in the park. It’s a great way to squeeze in some exercise while talking about our wedding plans and anything else that’s on our minds. During the week, if we’re trying to get in a quick walk or bike ride, we just go through the neighborhood.  On the weekends, we like to explore other areas around town and will sometimes stop at a farmer’s market afterwards to pick up breakfast and some fruits and vegetables for the week. Overall, I’m happy with the progress I’ve made on healthier eating and hope that with a little more focus I can get in the exercise to round out my fitness plan. Disclosure: I have received complimentary treatment from Invisalign in exchange for blogging about my bridal journey and treatment, and all opinions expressed are my own.