Without further ado, here are a handful of PR blogs you should read. AirPR. I really love the way Rebekah Iliff approaches trends in our industry, and she has a fabulous sense of humor. She only publishes once or twice a week, so it’s easy to keep up with. You’ll find it an entertaining read. Bad Pitch Blog. Quite some time ago, my team became fascinated with Bad Pitch Blog and its ways of embarrassing those in our industry who don’t do their research before pitching. It became the law that if anyone turned up on this blog, they’d immediately lose their job, no questions asked (no one has…so far). Since then, Kevin Dugan and Richard Laermer have produced other useful content as well. Deirdre Breakenridge. I’m fairly certain there is no one nicer than Deirdre Breakenridge, but she’s not just nice. She’s smart, too. Her blog is thought-provoking and interesting. Plus, she’s molding the next generation’s minds, so it’s good to see what topics are of interest to them. Ishmael’s Corner. Lou Hoffman is probably the wittiest of the lot of us. I always look forward to his annual predictions post because he has fun with it and most of it is very tongue-in-cheek. I love a pro who doesn’t take himself too seriously. PRTini. One of my favorite Heather Whaling writing stories (I have in-person stories, too!) is when my book, "Spin Sucks," came out earlier this year, she wrote a blog post about it, and apologized to her mom for saying the word “sucks” in it. Her mom commented that it was okay. As if I didn’t love her enough, that made me love her more. She gives you the skinny on all things related to communications through fun and colorful content. SHIFT Communications. I love everything that SHIFT does, and its blog is no exception. Pay particularly close attention to what Christopher Penn (who was just named PR professional of the year) writes. He’s one smart cookie. Waxing Unlyrical. Though her gorgeous lilt does not come through in her writing, Shonali Burke doesn’t mince words. If you want the real scoop on industry practices, which organizations are winning, and which are failing (and why), check out Waxing Unlyrical.